How to live before you die - Steve Jobs
I watched this talk when I was high school. I am glad I came across it again. This is Jobs' commencement speech to Stanford students. He delivered it very story-like, so it was nice to hear. He always described some happening in his life, then made his point after - it was a very structured talk. Jobs made three points during this talk: you can connect the dots only looking backwards, sometimes loss is a good thing, and death is probably the best invention. First, he describes that he took caligraphy classes and only saw them useful when he was developing the Mac (only took them at that time because he was interested - not for any practical reason). He tells the graduates to trust that their dots will also connect in a similar fashion. Although I liked his story, I think he could have made a different point. No one can be certian that the "dots will connect" looking backwards - that takes a great deal of luck. Second, he discusses that loss is sometimes a good thing. I remembered a quote I heard elsewhere when he said this, "Sometimes you need to take a step back to move three steps forward." The biggest idea here is that opportunities arise from all situations - not just after successes. Lastly, he describes death as the best invention. It is a clock that forces everyone to be on the same page, on the same track. Although very raw, I completely agree with his points here. The way in which he described it was eloquent and he makes his point very clearly. One shouldn't really care what others think because in the end, everything will be neutralized. Overall, I enjoyed most of this talk. I hoped he was a little more conversational instead of reading off the speech, but it was still a great talk nonetheless.

Where do good ideas come from? - Steven Johnson
The coffee house is where ideas have sex. That's how Johnson phrased it and it gives you a different persepctive on these coffee houses. When humanity switched from alcohol to coffee on a large scale (1600s), they switched from a depressant to a stimulant and the coffee house was the first step in doing so. Often times we think of ideas as a "eureka" moment or just a flash. He describes that ideas are actually a new network pattern of neurons. He says that ideas are not really complex - they are just new ways of applying what you already know. He describes a study where a researcher recorded a lab - when scientists were in front of the microscope, doing work on the bench, etc. However, he saw that ideas were mostly generated from the weekly, collaborative lab meetings, where thoughts were bounced between everyone. Johnson also said that ideas fade into view - such as what had happened to Darwin. He had the theory of evolution, as told by his notebooks. However, it needed some trigger for him to put his thoughts into words. He needed some collaborative environment to make it come to life. I really enjoyed listening to the ending of his talk. He discussed the advent of GPS and how it originated from a small side project. He related it back to the coffee house and was a great way to end the talk.

What we learned from 5 million books - Aiden and Michel
I clicked on this link because the title caught my attention. When I went to HackUVA, our project was creating a story from an image - seeing its tags and analyzing the possible grammars and sentences we could form from it. We used n-gram analysis to validate all the results we got. Surprisingly, the data we collected came from Google's parsing of all these kinds of books, exactly what the talk discussed. When we look at one book, there isn't much information we can glean from the outside - aside from the story itself. However, with so many books and so much data, the researchers in this talk were able to understand on a large scale how culture has changed throughout the years - culturomics, as they like to call it. Not only can they understand how the usage of words has changed - that's pretty boring (but sometimes useful) by itself - but they can create mathematical models and understand how things have changed. This includes surpression or propaganda, what kind of dialects were spoken, and the alike. When I used natural language processing, I thought that had a lot of data backing it up. It's neat to see that with even more, we can understand culture in a new light.

Lies, damned lies, and statistics - Wernicke (optional)
This TED talk was more of an entertaining clip over anything. I watched this after I watched the "What we learned from 5 million books" talk and it discussed a similar concept. We are able to analyze a huge collection of data - talks, books - and return some neat findings from it. In the other talk, they were able to find cultural trends. In this case, they are able to construct a new talk. It is sort of recursive - and it's interesting since this concept can be applied to not only actual talks, but computer-generated talks, leading to comptuer-generated talks based on computer-generated talks - a feedback loop. I wonder how far that could get before it was incomprehensible. This related, again, to my HackUVA project, where we created some story from tags we received. It's interesting that it's possible to create a new TEDtalk, as shown on the site. However, it's hard to understand, but it does get the point across.

Google's driverless car - Thrun (optional)
In this talk, Shrun talks about, well,l Google's self driving car. I didn't particularly like how he spoke, but he seemed like a smart character. One of the biggest realizations in this talk was when he said that essentailly all of automobile accidents occur due to human error, not machine. When we realize this fact, it seems very primitive that we are required to drive these huge machines, responsible for a ton or two in the middle of an open road. He discusses that if we can automate this, not only would have safer roads, we woul dhave faster, more efficient transportaion. I agree with the points he made, but would have liked to see some more talk about the actual technology within the vehicle. I researched a bit myself outside this video and saw several videos and read a few pieces of text on how the driverless car is progressing. It's crazy to think that just a few years ago, we couldn't get huge car, with lots of apparent technologies and additions, driving in the desert. It's very rapidly becoming a reality.

Questioning the universe - Stephen Hawking (optional)
How did the universe come from the big bang - why did it work out that way? He talks about Maxwell's laws and the exact formulation of the inital state of the universe in this talk. In the past, we haven't known much about the initial conditions but we have learned that on some level, time and space had to be separated. Another idea he discusses is how life as arised. We believe that on Earth, it happened spontaneously with single-celled organisms. This means, then, that it can happen the same way on other planets. Further, he discusses the future of the human race. If we are the only intelligent species around, then we must make sure that we survive and continue. However, it's becoming more dangerous, as our population is growing yet our resources are finite. He says that our only chance to survive is to spread into space, which is exactly what Elon Musk is attempting to do. I liked that this TED talk has a quesiton and answer period - even if it was only one. When asked if he thought we were the only civilizations, he said that yes, probably within a few hundrend light years - otherwise we would have heard from them. He discusses that if not, it seems that civilizations may have destroyed themselves.

Why we don't understand as much as we think - Drori (optional)
Children seem to answer particular questions better than older indivudals can. Drori quotes from an older individual that we must be careful what we get into peoples' heads because it's virtually impossible to get it out. He begins his talk by asking four questions to the audience, seeing if we were able to get them correct. I enjoyed this part, since it was a little commmon sense with a trick. After explaining these questions and answers, he says that we look for things that reinforce the models we have. We have to contrast the good and bad interpretations of things when we encounter them. Children aren't empty vessels - which is what school is originally based off of. They already have preconceptions, and shifting them to be correct can be a difficult job. When questions are asked, it's often easy to come up with an aswer on the spot. However, when an additional constraint is put, our original answer can sometimes be wrong. We really don't understand everything we think we do, and the speakers asks that we fiddle around with such topics, both mentally and physically, to alleviate this issue.



What work doesn't happen at work - Fried
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5XD2kNopsUs